## Step 3: Interfacing with the HuggingFace API
Now that your API key is created and stored securely, we can start asking Huggingface to summarize our tweets!


Let's get started by creating a summarize_tweets function. In this function, we'll be communicating with the HuggingFace API using a **direct http call**, which means we're using the ```requests``` library to  send the API the information it needs with ```POST``` and ```GET``` protocols. 

</br>
</br>

### HTTP Post and Get Protocols

There are two main HTTP methods that are commonly used: ```GET``` and ```POST```. 

Here's a brief overview of how they work:

- **GET**: The ```GET``` method is used to request data from a server. When you enter a URL into your web browser and hit enter, your browser is sending a ```GET``` request to the server to retrieve the web page or other resource associated with that URL. The ```GET``` method is generally used to retrieve data that is not intended to change, such as a web page or an image.

</br>

- **POST**: The ```POST``` method is used to send data to a server and request that it be processed and stored. The ```POST``` method is often used to submit data to a server, such as when you fill out a form on a website and click the "Submit" button. The ```POST``` method is typically used for actions that create or update data, such as creating a new user account or updating a profile.

</br>

 In short, GET method is used to retrieve data from a server, while the POST method is used to send data to a server and request that it be processed and stored.





</br>
</br>

### Making the Interface function
`utils.py`

Here, we'll be interfacing with the BART (text summarization AI) on Huggingface. We'll be doing this through something called a **direct HTTP call**.

**A direct HTTP call**  is a **request made directly to a server**, without using any additional libraries or frameworks. In other words, a direct HTTP call is a way to **communicate with a server** using only the core features of HTTP, rather than relying on a higher-level library or framework to handle the communication for you. In this case, **we'll be talking to the Huggingface server!**


Read more about direct HTTP calls [here.](https://assertible.com/blog/7-http-methods-every-web-developer-should-know-and-how-to-test-them)


Alright, now it's time to make the function! Open up `utils.py` and add the function!

</br>

Here's how the interface function is going to look: 
```python

def summarize(input_text) -> str:
  """ Summarizes the input text.
  """
  # Gets the token which lets us access API, API url is used to access the model online.
  inf_headers = {"Authorization": f"Bearer {os.environ['inference_api']}"}
  API_URL = "https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/facebook/bart-large-cnn"

  # Tells us what our input for the model is and what parameters we want. This means we want a relatively small text in the end. 
  query = {
    "inputs": input_text,
    "parameters": {
      "do_sample": False,
      'min_length': 120,
      'max_length': 180
    },
  }
  # Posts the original text to the site and then gets the summary back!
  data = json.dumps(query)
  response = requests.request("POST",
                              API_URL,
                              headers=inf_headers,
                              data=data)
  summary = json.loads(response.content.decode("utf-8"))

  return summary

```

Don't be overwhlemed! There's a lot of code, but it's very simple and easy to understand. 

Let's break it down:

```python
 """ Summarizes the input text.
  """
  # Gets the token which lets us access API, API url is used to access the model online.
  inf_headers = {"Authorization": f"Bearer {os.environ['inference_api']}"}
  API_URL = "https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/facebook/bart-large-cnn"


```

 This block of code is getting ready to interface with the API. It's like when you're at the airport, and get your passport and visa ready for the security to let you through. 
 
 The function starts by retrieving the **API key** that we made earlier, which is stored in an environment variable called **inference_api** -> it does this with the ```os.environ['inference_api']``` . This key is used to authenticate the API request.
 
```
Note: IF YOUR ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE ISN'T CALLED 'inference_api' , THEN THIS WON'T WORK!! Make sure you've followed the steps to creating the environment variable above, in Step 2.   
```
 

 The function then sets up the ```API URL``` that will be used to access the text summarization model.In this case, the model is hosted at ```https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/facebook/bart-large-cnn```.     

.


```python

# Tells us what our input for the model is and what parameters we want. This means we want a relatively small text in the end. 
  query = {
    "inputs": input_text,
    "parameters": {
      "do_sample": False,
      'min_length': 120,
      'max_length': 180
    },
  }

```

The function then defines a **query object**,  (the thing inside the ```{}``` curly brackets) that specifies the input text and parameters for the summarization. In this case, the ```do_sample parameter``` is set to ```False```, which tells the model to generate a summary based on the input text rather than sampling from it. The ```min_length``` and ```max_length``` parameters specify the minimum and maximum length of the summary, in this case 120 and 180 words, respectively.

.

```python
# Posts the original text to the site and then gets the summary back!
  data = json.dumps(query)
  response = requests.request("POST",
                              API_URL,
                              headers=inf_headers,
                              data=data)
  summary = json.loads(response.content.decode("utf-8"))

  return summary

```

The function then converts the query object to a ```JSON``` string and sends it to the API using the ```POST```  method. The ```headers``` parameter includes the API key in the Authorization header.

The function receives a response from the API containing the summary of the input text. This is stored in the variable ```summary```. It decodes the response and converts it to a Python object using the json.loads function.

Finally, the function returns the ```summary``` as a string.

</br>

### What's a Json??
Here's a quick explanation of a `JSON` if you don't know what it is. 
`JSON`  is an efficient data format that is used to send and receive data between servers and web applications. Think of it as the envelope that carries your letter in the mail. 

A JSON object is a collection of key-value pairs, similar to a dictionary in Python. The keys are strings, and the values can be any of the following types: strings, numbers, booleans (true or false), null, arrays, or other JSON objects. 

```Python

{
  "name": "John Smith",
  "age": 30,
  "address": {
    "street": "123 Main St",
    "city": "New York",
    "state": "NY"
  },
  "skills": ["programming", "cooking", "gardening"]
}



```
In this example, the JSON object has four key-value pairs: "name" and "John Smith", "age" and 30, "address" and an object with its own key-value pairs, and "skills" and an array of strings. 

In our case, the JSON includes valuable authentication credentials so that the Huggingface API knows who you are, and also the text we want summarized and some other parameters. 

</br>
Now that you have the summarizer, it's time to take the next step!