
## Step 4: Setting up cleaner functions
`utils.py`

Twitter is a very... vibrant community. As such, some tweets we harvest can contain undesirable things like profanity, emojis, and URLS. We don't want these kinds of things in the app, so we'll be cleaning them. Start by opening `utils.py`.

</br>
</br>

### Setting up the URL cleaner function
We're going to set up a function that clears our tweets of URLs. 

In our function, we're going to be using **"regular expressions"**, or **RegEx** for short. 

**Regular expressions (regex)** are a sequence of characters that define a search pattern. We use regex characters to match and manipulate strings, or text data. Regex can be used to check if a string contains the specified search pattern, to search and replace parts of a string, or to extract information from a string. Python has a package called ```re``` for regular expressions, so at the top of your file with the other imports you'll need to add:
```python
import re
```

Learn more about regex [here](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_regex.asp).



**Step 1**: define a function `url_free_text`. The function will accept and output a string, so we'll use something called **type hints**.

We'll define the function as 

```python
def url_free_text(text: str) -> str:

```
The unorthodox `':'` and `'str'` and `'-> str:'` are **type hints**. 
Type hints allow you to specify the expected data type of a function's input arguments and its return value. In this case, the function is  to accept a single argument `text`, which is expected to be a string, and it returns a string.

Read more about type hints [here](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html).

</br>

**Step 2:** Use regex to filter out URLs. 

URLs almost always start with `'http'`, right? So to filter out URLs we should look for any words/strings that contain `'http'` and get rid of them. 

We can do this with 

```python
text = re.sub(r'http\S+', '', text)
return text
```

The `r` character in front of `http\S+` in Python indicates a "raw string". In a raw string, backslashes `\` are treated as literal characters and are not used as escape characters. '`\`' can indicate something in regex like `r` does, normally. This can be useful when working with regular expressions, as the backslash is often used as an escape character in those as well.

So the string r"\d" is interpreted as a string that contains two characters: a backslash and a d.

`re.sub` is the regex substitute command.

It takes in these parameters:
```python
re.sub(pattern, replacement, string)
```
`pattern`: a regular expression pattern to search for in the input 
string

`replacement`: the string to replace the matched pattern with

`string`: the input string to search and replace in

The `pattern` in this function is the regular expression `r'http\S+'`, which will match any string starting with `"http"` followed by one or more non-whitespace characters **(that's what S+ stands for)**. The `replacement` is an empty string `""`, which means that any strings matching the pattern will be removed from the text. 

The `string` is the tweet text that is passed to the function.

For example, if the input text is "This is a tweet with a link: http://www.example.com", the function will return "This is a tweet with a link: ".

</br>
</br>

The final function should look something like this:

```python
def url_free_text(text: str) -> str:
  '''
    Removes URL's from tweets
    Accepts:
      Text (tweets)
    Returns:
      Text (Without any urls in it)
    '''
  text = re.sub(r'http\S+', '', text)
  return text

```

</br>

### Removing certain symbols:

We want to remove certain symbols from the text because they are not relevant to the main content of the text and may clutter up the final output. For example, Twitter handles (beginning with @) and hashtags (beginning with #) are often used in tweets, but they may not be necessary for the overall understanding or summary of the tweet's content. Removing these symbols can help to simplify and clarify the text.

Also in `utils.py`, define a new function:

```python
def symbol_free_text(text: str) -> str:

```

Now that the function is defined, we want to get rid of any '@' and '#' symbols. we do this with

```python
text = re.sub(r'@\S+', '', text)
text = re.sub(r'#\S+', '', text)
return text
```

First, we use the `re.sub()` function to remove any substrings that begin with `@` and are followed by one or more non-whitespace characters (`\S+`). These substrings are replaced with an empty string (`''`), effectively removing them from the text.  Then we use `re.sub()` again to remove any substrings that begin with `#` and are followed by one or more non-whitespace characters. These substrings are also replaced with an empty string. Finally, we return the cleaned text. 

</br>
The final function should look like this:

```python
def symbol_free_text(text: str) -> str:
  '''
    Cleans text from urls
    '''
  text = re.sub(r'@\S+', '', text)
  text = re.sub(r'#\S+', '', text)
  return text
```

  </br>
  </br>

### Setting up emoji cleaner function
Emojis add a lot of unnessecary complexities and aren't really beneficial for news. So we're getting rid of them. 


**Step 1:** Also in `utils.py`, define a function

```python
def give_emoji_free_text(text: str) -> str:

```

</br>


**Step 2**: Add code to clean string of emojis. 


Here's what the completed function looks like:

```python
def give_emoji_free_text(text: str) -> str:
  """
    Removes emoji's from tweets
    Accepts:
        Text (tweets)
    Returns:
        Text (emoji free tweets)
    """
  emoji_list = [c for c in text if c in emoji.EMOJI_DATA]
  clean_text = ' '.join(
    [str for str in text.split() if not any(i in str for i in emoji_list)])
  return clean_text

```
The function `give_emoji_free_text` takes our tweet, called `text`, as input and returns a string.

The function first creates a list of characters called `emoji_list` by looping through `emoji.EMOJI_DATA`. The function iterates through each character in `text` and includes it in `emoji_list` if it is in the `emoji.EMOJI_DATA` list, which means it is an emoji. 

```
NOTE: This `emoji.EMOJI_DATA` object is a pre-defined list/dictionary of emoji characters, which is why we are using it to identify which characters in text are emojis. 
```
Next, the function creates a new string called `clean_text` . The function iterates through each string in `text.split()`, which splits the `text` string into a list of individual words. 

For each word in the list, the function checks whether any character in `emoji_list` is present in that word (thus checking if any emojis are in the word). If no emoji characters are present, the word is included in the list that is passed to `' '.join()`. This `' '.join()` function stitches all the words in the list back into a single string, separated by `''`, or spaces.

At the end, the function returns `clean_text`, which is our emoji-less tweet!


### Setting up the Profanity cleaner Function
In this function we will be interfacing with the Pugomalum API to check if there's profanity in our tweet. If there is, we'll censor it. 

**Step 1:** Define a function `isProfane`. Use Type hints to make sure that the input is a `string` and the output is a `boolean`. 

Your code should look like this: 

```python
def isProfane(text: str) -> bool:
```

**Step 2:** Inside the function, create a variable `response` that sends a `GET` request to the Purgomalum API. This API censors profanity in text and returns the text with the profanity replaced with '*' characters. Here's the [documentation](https://www.purgomalum.com/) .

Your code should look like this:

```python
  response = requests.get(
    f'https://www.purgomalum.com/service/json?text={text}')
```


**Step 3:**
Check if the response from the API has an `'error'` field. If it does, return True. This means that something went wrong with the API request and we should return `True` as a default value.

Your code should look like this: 

```python
if 'error' in response.json():
    return True
```

**Step 4:** If there is no 'error' field, create a variable `count_profanity` that counts the number of '*' characters in the `result` field of the response. Have the function return `True` if the given text contains more than 3 instances of profanity, and `False` otherwise.

Your code should look like this:

```python
count_profanity = response.json()['result'].count('*')
return (count_profanity > 3)
```

</br>
</br>

This is the completed function:
```python
def isProfane(text: str) -> bool:
  """
  Checks if there's profane text in a tweet
  Uses Purgomalum API to check if there's profanity in tweet. 
  Censors profanity using '*' and then counts '*', returning boolean if true.
  
  Accepts:
    Text
  Returns:
    Boolean if there is profanity in text
  """
  response = requests.get(
    f'https://www.purgomalum.com/service/json?text={text}')
  if 'error' in response.json():
    return True
  count_profanity = response.json()['result'].count('*')
  return (count_profanity > 3)
```

</br>
Congrats! Now that you've created all of your cleaner functions, you're now ready to move on to the next step!